Welcome back! In this step, we would want to create a simple controller, a REST controller which would return
some hardcoded text.
This is like your hello world
RESTful web service.
I won’t really call this a restful webservice. Let’s just call it a service
that returns some text.
I'm going to create a new class. Control N or command N. Type in class and I would want to create a new
class. I would want to call this hello world controller and click finish. What we want to do in this
hello world controller is, I would want to create a method and I would want this method to return.
Hello world.
That's what we would want to do. Whenever we create REST service,
we would need to define two things, right?
One is what method? I would want to use get method and I would want to use
a URI.
What URI do we want to use?  I want to use the URI, slash Hello world.
So if somebody goes into their browser and sends a GET request to slash hello world I would want to send
him some text.
That's basically all that I would want to do in this step.
One of the first things that we would need to do is to tell spring that this is a controller with.
So this is a controller in the sense that this would be handling HTTP requests.
So we need to tell Spring that this is a controller.
And next we’d need to create a method.
So the method would be let's say public.
It's returning a string hello world so I'll call it string and let's call it hello world.
What should this method do.
Simple right.
We would want to return this string back.
So I would do that return the string back. To this method,
I need to map a GET request to be the URI
hello world.
There are two things
now we have to do.
One is to call this a controller. So we need to say this is a controller and then we would need to map
a get URI of slash hello world to this.
How do we do that?
Let's focus on the controller first.
If you'd want to tell Spring MVC that this is going to handle REST requests, how do we do that?
We would do that is by using something called Rest controller. So, at rest controller.
Now this becomes a controller which can handle rest requests.
The next thing is to create a mapping for
this method. I would want to map a GET request to this
URI.
One of the ways of doing that is to create a request mapping.
So I type @ request mapping. This is an annotation. I’ll import the annotation. I pressed control one and imported
it in.
And here, I can define what is the request method. Request method that we want to use is…request method
dot get. So the method we want to use is GET and the URI..how do we map the URI? That’s
by using the path. Path is equal to slash hello world. That’s it!
It's as simple as this.
Now let's start our RESTful webservices
application. When I type in localhost 8080 slash
hello world.
You’d see Hello world
displayed on the browser.
What we have done until now is we put up a very simple annotation at rest controller and then we mapped get requests
to this URI to this method. And whatever text which is returned by this particular method
it's displayed on the browser. So we can improve this further.
Instead of using at request mapping, there's an another annotation called Get mapping.
So I can say get mapping, import get mapping and now I don't need to specify the method is equal to request
method
dot get. So I can say get mapping path is equal to hello world. Similar to this,
there would be other mappings like post mapping, put mapping and other mappings that we would use in
the subsequent steps.
I like the at get mapping annotation because it's quite short and it's very easy to read as well.
So, I’m mapping a get request to
hello world.
Isn't that a cool thing?
I'll organize my imports. Control shift O.
And let's restart and you’d see that the service would continue working. In this brief step,
we created a simple hello world request.